if I'm a young player coming into the league today I would really focus on the defensive end of the
floor and look at Scottie Pippen I mean this guy was a genius his ball pressure playing passing lanes
blocking shots taking charges and he played with a passion on the defensive end of the floor like
no this is the most exciting part of the game to me all right so here again Scottie is
initiating the action he's making Mark work to bring the ball up the floor okay that's one
now where he's pushing him he's pushing him into situations where Mark can't really attack
right here you got Michael sitting here waiting right that area is clogged up there's nowhere for
him to go Scottie's fully aware of that so he knows you can put a lot of pressure on him in
these areas because there's nowhere for him to drive so now where is Mark looking right he's
looking for these curl actions here it could run the play right Scottie took the play away
here he cuts the angle off now Mark says okay I gotta attack him he's bodying up on me I'm gonna
attack him Mark attacks him here but now Scottie you know sensing that Mark wants to fill the
contact right because Scottie's been bodying him this whole time so now Mark seeks the contact
and Scottie just backs up Scottie just backs up I mean that's just brilliant defense
let me think about that for a second I mean he's bodying Mark the whole game body and body
him now Mark's looking for for Scottie's body and Scottie just just moves back and lets Mark lose his
balance that's a game of catmouse right there
okay again you know Scottie's making the reads he knows this action
right he knows it here it is he knows the ball comes back there he knows they're looking for
the Starks coming off of a double screen on the weak side so he tries to get his hand in that
pass lane he misses it but this shows me that he is keenly aware of the actions that are taking
place out here on the floor which means he prepares so if I'm this draft pit coming into
the league I know I got to do my homework you know homework could give you all the answers right
Scottie knows what's coming there right now this is unbelievable look at all the ground
this guy covers here down there
all right but it's the activity you know he plays defense with an energy you know too many
players today play defense just to play defense he's attacking these offensive players he's going
after it he's playing with an energy out there if I can learn how to cut angles off like Scottie
be aggressive on a defensive in the floor like Scottie I think that'll just take my game
and the team that drafts me to an entirely different level
for more analysis go to detail on ESPN plus